# Customer Churn Prediction, Segmentation and Fraud Detection in Telecommunication Industry

The rapid growth of the telecommunication market has led to a larger subscriber-base for every service provider. Every competitor is launching innovative business models and better services which in turn increases the cost of customer retention. In this environment, service providers have realized the importance of customer retention. Therefore, they are forced to put more effort into the prediction and prevention of customer churn. The first part of the paper presents commonly used data-mining techniques for the identification of churners and customer segmentation based on various key performance indicators (KPIs) particularly in the context of Pakistan’s telecommunication industry. While the second part discusses how social network analysis extracts relationships between different subscribers to improve the results produced by the traditional learning algorithms at the individual subscriber level. These techniques are used to find patterns from the historical data which can point-out possible churners for the entire activated subscriber-base, also segment the subscriber-base with similar activities to build an effective marketing campaign. These aspects are modeled using various classification and regression algorithms for churn prediction and clustering techniques for customer segmentation to build base-level models. On top of it, diffusion and group analysis are performed to enhance the overall accuracy of churn prediction and segmentation simultaneously. Furthermore, the newly activated subscriber-base is modeled using a limited 7 days data to detect fraudulent sales and also to predict whether a particular customer will retain company services after the promotional period. Satisfactory results are achieved from the base model which are significantly enhanced by the social network analysis.

This system is an implementation of 
<a href="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/304822719_Customer_Churn_Prediction_Segmentation_and_Fraud_Detection_in_Telecommunication_Industry">Ali, A. R, and Lin, P. In Proceedings of the 4th ASE International Conference on Big Data, ASE, Cambridge, MA, Jan 2014. </a>